URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/sasasavic_this-may-pose-an-interesting-issue-before-activity-7371340184342355968-Xogd
Date: 2025-09-24
Author: Unknown

This may pose an interesting issue...


Before you roll your eyes, throw a comment on how LLMs are a fad, a toy, a hype or an overglorified pattern matcher... please hear me out, as this is merely a philosophical thought, not a technical debate - I am well aware of their limitations and usefulness.

I welcome an interesting philosophical debate.

I think that LLMs’ hallucinatory behavior is a feature rather than a bug.

I'd define hallucinations as a form of internal intuition, deeply embedded in the latent space, governed by the hyperdimensional connectedness that the reasoning process exhibits.

Whatever you want to call it, you cannot argue that there isn't some form of emergent behavior - even if the "intelligence" is manufactured or synthesized through this "next token prediction."

Call it a "leap of faith in answering," backed by internal knowledge and formulated facts (within the model's scope of understanding and rationalizing).

My question is, how do you reward a system for something that it doesn't know, given the foundational model has been trained on world knowledge?

On the idea of controlling hallucinations:

I actually think that this will severely limit the system in bridging ideas between two or more independent domains that may have a strong or weak affinity.

For example, if you try to get the system to formulate how Field A may apply in Field B, and given it may not have any a priori knowledge on those two independent fields or very weak relationship, then its answer should be "I don't know," rather than attempt to formulate a rational answer - even if the by-product of that answer is wrong (call it "hallucinated") and backed by a weak relationship.

I would go as far as saying that ALL answers the LLM produces are hallucinations, it's just that some hallucinations are more accurate than others.

Truthfully, let's face it - every body of known human knowledge has been "hallucinated" by every human that has produced and contributed to that body of knowledge.

The accuracy and quality of world knowledge builds itself on prior bodies of knowledge, with each iteration modifying or building upon the previous. It's a recursive process.

If Copernicus or Galileo, based on their observations, produced a body of knowledge that, at the time, was taken as fact - only to be fundamentally wrong from a modern-day perspective, can we say that they hallucinated their understanding of the topic at hand?

All I'm saying is that limiting their behaviour by rewarding what they don't know is moot, because what doesn't "I don't know", even mean in context of a system that has world knowledge embedded as part of it's reasoning process.

Perhaps consumer systems will be limited in this thinking, while research systems will remain unconstrained.

Some food for thought 🤔